# review-sentinel.streamlit.app

Visit: https://review-sentinel.streamlit.app

## How

1. Reviews are autogenerated from a pool of sample reviews. You can modify or write new from scratch
2. Click on Add Review and wait for sentiment analysis
3. You can add one or more reviews.
4. You can downvote or upvote the reviews many times
5. The state of the application is not persisted hence lost on refresh



## Prerequisites

To run  project, you need to have the following prerequisites:

- Python (version 3.10 or higher) installed on your machine.
- The necessary Python packages and dependencies installed. You can find the required packages in the `requirements.txt`
  file of the project repository.

- `CLARIFAI_PAT`: get a PAT (Personal Access Token). Visit: [App](https://clarifai.com/hiro/review-sentinel/settings)
  and generate an api key with all scopes enabled.
- copy `.env.example` to `.env`
- paste the `CLARIFAI_PATH`

## How to Run with Python3 and `make`

To run the OS-Chat project using `Python` and `make`, follow these steps:

```shell
   git clone <repository_url> sentinel.nas
   cd sentinel.nas
   make install
#   create .env file and fill in the environment variables
   make run
```

## How to Run via Docker

To run the project using `Docker`, follow these steps:

```shell
docker build -t app .
docker run -p 8080:8080 app
```

> For developers,
> I recommend <br>
> ```docker run -it -e "mode=development" -p 8080:8080 sentinel-nas``` <br>
> playaround and test your code!


> Please note that you will need to replace `<repository_url>` with the actual URL of this/forked repo

I hope this helps! Raise issues to clarify your doubts and notify bugs.

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions from the community! To get started, follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork of the repository to your local machine.
3. Create a new branch for your changes: `git checkout -b <your-username>/your-feature-branch`.
4. Make your changes and commit them to your branch.
5. Push your changes to your fork on GitHub.
6. Open a pull request from your fork's branch to the main repository.

Please make sure to follow the [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) when contributing to this project.